RHIDP-3878 Authenticating with RHSSO (#480)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/auth/proc-enabling-authentication-with-rhsso.adoc

[id="enabling-authentication-with-rhsso"]
= Enabling authentication with Red Hat Single-Sign On (RHSSO)

To authenticate users with Red Hat SSO (RHSSO), enable the OpenID Connect (OIDC) authentication provider in {product}.

.Prerequisites
* You link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_developer_hub/{product-version}/html/administration_guide_for_red_hat_developer_hub/assembly-add-custom-app-file-openshift_admin-rhdh[added a custom {product-short} application configuration], and have sufficient permissions to modify it.
* You have sufficient permissions in RHSSO to create and manage a realm.

.Procedure
. To allow Developer Hub to authenticate with RHSSO, complete the steps in RHSSO, to link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#realms-apps_[create a realm and a user] and link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#registering-app_[register the {product-short} application]:

> .. Use an existing realm, or link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#create-realm_[create a realm], with a distinctive **Name** such as __<{product-very-short}>__.

Author: ```suggestion
.. Use an existing realm, or link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#create-realm_[create a realm], with a distinctive **Name** such as __<my_realm>__.
.. Save your **RHSSO realm base URL** for the next step, such as: __<your_rhsso_URL>__/auth/realms/__<my_realm>__.
```

.. To register your {product-short} in RHSSO, in this realm, link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#registering-app_[create a Client ID], with:
... **Client ID**: A distinctive client ID, such as __<{product-very-short}>__.
//... **Client authentication**: Toggle to On.
... **Valid redirect URIs**: Set to the OIDC handler URL: `https://__<RHDH_URL>__/api/auth/oidc/handler/frame`.
... Navigate to the **Credentials** tab and copy the **Client secret**.

> ... Save the **RHSSO URL**, **Realm name**, **Client ID**, and **Client Secret** values for the next step.

Author: ```suggestion
... Save the values for the next steps:
* **RHSSO realm base URL**
* **Client ID**
* **Client Secret**
```

.. To prepare for the verification steps, in the same realm, get the credential information for an existing user or link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#create-user_[create a user and save the user credential information].
... Save the **Username** and **Password** for the verification steps.

. To add your RHSSO credentials in your Developer Hub secrets, edit your Developer Hub secrets, such as `secrets-rhdh`, and add the following key/value pairs:
+

> `AUTH_OIDC_CLIENT_ID`:: Enter the Client ID that you generated in Keycloak, such as `RHDH`.
> `AUTH_OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET`:: Enter the Client Secret that you generated in Keycloak.
> `AUTH_OIDC_METADATA_URL`:: Enter your RHSSO realm base URL, such as: __<your_rhsso_URL>__/auth/realms/__<{product-very-short}>__.

Author: ```suggestion
`AUTH_OIDC_CLIENT_ID`:: Enter the saved **Client ID**.
`AUTH_OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET`:: Enter the saved **Client Secret**.
`AUTH_OIDC_METADATA_URL`:: Enter your **RHSSO realm base URL**, such as: __<your_rhsso_URL>__/auth/realms/__<my_realm>__.
```

[id="enabling-authentication-with-rhsso"]
= Enabling authentication with Red Hat Single-Sign On (RHSSO)

To authenticate users with Red Hat SSO (RHSSO), enable the OpenID Connect (OIDC) authentication provider in {product}.

You might use this authentication provider to authenticate with other third-party services that support the OIDC protocol.

.Prerequisites
* You link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_developer_hub/{product-version}/html/administration_guide_for_red_hat_developer_hub/assembly-add-custom-app-file-openshift_admin-rhdh[added a custom {product-short} application configuration], and have sufficient permissions to modify it.
* You have sufficient permissions in RHSSO to create and manage a realm.

.Procedure

> . To allow Developer Hub to authenticate with RHSSO, complete the steps in RHSSO:

Author: ```suggestion
. To allow Developer Hub to authenticate with RHSSO, complete the steps in RHSSO, to link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#realms-apps_[create a realm and a user], and link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#registering-app_[register the {product-short} application]:
```

> .. Create a new realm, such as __<{product-very-short}>__.

Author: ```suggestion
.. Create a new realm, with a distinctive **Name** such as __<{product-very-short}>__.
```

> .. Create a new realm, with a distinctive **Name** such as __<{product-very-short}>__.

Author: ```suggestion
.. link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#create-realm_[Create a realm], with a distinctive **Name** such as __<{product-very-short}>__.
```

> .. link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#create-realm_[Create a realm], with a distinctive **Name** such as __<{product-very-short}>__.

Author: ```suggestion
.. Use an existing realm, or link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#create-realm_[create a realm], with a distinctive **Name** such as __<{product-very-short}>__.
```

> .. In this realm, link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#create-user_[create a user], with a **Username** such as __<rhdhuser>__, and toggle **Email verified** to `On`.

Author: ```suggestion
.. In this realm, link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#create-user_[create a user], with:
... **Username**: Set a distinctive user name, such as __<rhdhuser>__.
... **Email verified**: Toggle to `On`.
```

.. To set a password for this user, navigate to the **Credentials** tab, click **Set password**, enter the **Password**, and toggle **Temporary** to `Off`.

> .. Create a new Client ID, such as __<{product-very-short}>__.

Author: ```suggestion
.. link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#registering-app_[Create a Client ID], with a distinctive **CLient ID** such as __<{product-very-short}>__.
```

[id="enabling-authentication-with-rhsso"]
= Enabling authentication with Red Hat Single-Sign On (RHSSO)

To authenticate users with Red Hat SSO (RHSSO), enable the OpenID Connect (OIDC) authentication provider in {product}.

You might use this authentication provider to authenticate with other third-party services that support the OIDC protocol.

.Prerequisites

> * You added a custom {product-short} application configuration, and have sufficient permissions to modify it.
> See link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_developer_hub/{product-version}/html/administration_guide_for_red_hat_developer_hub/assembly-add-custom-app-file-openshift_admin-rhdh[Adding a custom application configuration file to {product-short}].

Author: ```suggestion
* You link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_developer_hub/{product-version}/html/administration_guide_for_red_hat_developer_hub/assembly-add-custom-app-file-openshift_admin-rhdh[added a custom {product-short} application configuration], and have sufficient permissions to modify it.
```

.. Use an existing realm, or link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#create-realm_[create a realm], with a distinctive **Name** such as __<{product-very-short}>__.
.. To register your {product-short} in RHSSO, in this realm, link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#registering-app_[create a Client ID], with:
... **Client ID**: A distinctive client ID, such as __<{product-very-short}>__.
//... **Client authentication**: Toggle to On.
... **Valid redirect URIs**: Set to the OIDC handler URL: `https://__<RHDH_URL>__/api/auth/oidc/handler/frame`.
... Navigate to the **Credentials** tab and copy the **Client secret**.
... Save the **RHSSO URL**, **Realm name**, **Client ID**, and **Client Secret** values for the next step.

> .. To prepare for the verification steps, in the same realm, get the credential information for an existing user, or link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#create-user_[create a user], with:
> ... **Username**: Set a distinctive user name, such as __<rhdhuser>__.
> ... **Email verified**: Toggle to `On`.
> ... To set a password for this user, navigate to the **Credentials** tab, click **Set password**, enter the **Password**, and toggle **Temporary** to `Off`.

Author: Indeed, we should not repeat the RHSSO docs:

```suggestion
.. To prepare for the verification steps, in the same realm, get the credential information for an existing user or link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#create-user_[create a user and save the user credential information].
```

> .. In this realm, use an existing user, or link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#create-user_[create a user], with:
> ... **Username**: Set a distinctive user name, such as __<rhdhuser>__.
> ... **Email verified**: Toggle to `On`.
> ... To set a password for this user, navigate to the **Credentials** tab, click **Set password**, enter the **Password**, and toggle **Temporary** to `Off`.
> ... Save the **Username** and **Password** for the verification steps.
> .. link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#registering-app_[Create a Client ID], with:
> ... **Client ID**: A distinctive client ID, such as __<{product-very-short}>__.
> //... **Client authentication**: Toggle to On.
> ... **Valid redirect URIs**: Set to the OIDC handler URL: `https://__<RHDH_URL>__/api/auth/oidc/handler/frame`.
> ... Navigate to the **Credentials** tab and copy the **Client secret**.
> .. Save the **RHSSO URL**, **Realm name**, **Client ID**, and **Client Secret** values for the next step.

Author: ```suggestion
.. To register your {product-short} in RHSSO, link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#registering-app_[create a Client ID], with:
... **Client ID**: A distinctive client ID, such as __<{product-very-short}>__.
//... **Client authentication**: Toggle to On.
... **Valid redirect URIs**: Set to the OIDC handler URL: `https://__<RHDH_URL>__/api/auth/oidc/handler/frame`.
... Navigate to the **Credentials** tab and copy the **Client secret**.
... Save the **RHSSO URL**, **Realm name**, **Client ID**, and **Client Secret** values for the next step.

.. To prepare for the verification steps, in this realm, use an existing user, or link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#create-user_[create a user], with:
... **Username**: Set a distinctive user name, such as __<rhdhuser>__.
... **Email verified**: Toggle to `On`.
... To set a password for this user, navigate to the **Credentials** tab, click **Set password**, enter the **Password**, and toggle **Temporary** to `Off`.
... Save the **Username** and **Password** for the verification steps.
```

. To add your RHSSO credentials in your Developer Hub secrets, edit your Developer Hub secrets, such as `secrets-rhdh`, and add the following key/value pairs:
+
`AUTH_OIDC_CLIENT_ID`:: Enter the Client ID that you generated in Keycloak, such as `RHDH`.
`AUTH_OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET`:: Enter the Client Secret that you generated in Keycloak.
`AUTH_OIDC_METADATA_URL`:: Enter your RHSSO realm base URL, such as: __<your_rhsso_URL>__/auth/realms/__<{product-very-short}>__.

. To set up the RHSSO authentication provider in your {product-short} custom configuration, edit your custom Developer Hub config map, such as `app-config-rhdh`, and add following lines to the `app-config-rhdh.yaml` content:
+
.`app-config-rhdh.yaml` fragment
[source,yaml]

> ----
> auth:
>   environment: production # <1>
>   providers:
>     oidc:
>       production:
>         metadataUrl: ${AUTH_OIDC_METADATA_URL}
>         clientId: ${AUTH_OIDC_CLIENT_ID}
>         clientSecret: ${AUTH_OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET}
>         prompt: auto
>         ## Uncomment for additional configuration options
>         # callbackUrl: ${AUTH_OIDC_CALLBACK_URL}
>         # tokenEndpointAuthMethod: ${AUTH_OIDC_TOKEN_ENDPOINT_METHOD}
>         # tokenSignedResponseAlg: ${AUTH_OIDC_SIGNED_RESPONSE_ALG}
>         # scope: ${AUTH_OIDC_SCOPE}
>         ## Declarative resolvers to override the default resolver: `emailLocalPartMatchingUserEntityName`
>         ## The authentication provider tries each sign-in resolver until it succeeds, and fails if none succeed. Uncomment the resolvers that you want to use.
>         # signIn:
>         #   resolvers:
>         #     - resolver: preferredUsernameMatchingUserEntityName
>         #     - resolver: emailMatchingUserEntityProfileEmail
>         #     - resolver: emailLocalPartMatchingUserEntityName
> signInPage: oidc # <2>
> dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog: true # <3>
> ----
> +
> <1> Mark the environment as `production` to hide the Guest login in the {product-short} home page.
> <2> To enable the OIDC provider as default sign-in provider.
> <3> To enable authentication without requiring to provision the user catalog.

Author: ```suggestion
----
auth:
  environment: production # <1>
  providers:
    oidc:
      production:
        metadataUrl: ${AUTH_OIDC_METADATA_URL} # <2>
        clientId: ${AUTH_OIDC_CLIENT_ID} # <2>
        clientSecret: ${AUTH_OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET} # <2>
        prompt: auto
        ## Uncomment for additional configuration options
        # callbackUrl: ${AUTH_OIDC_CALLBACK_URL}
        # tokenEndpointAuthMethod: ${AUTH_OIDC_TOKEN_ENDPOINT_METHOD}
        # tokenSignedResponseAlg: ${AUTH_OIDC_SIGNED_RESPONSE_ALG}
        # scope: ${AUTH_OIDC_SCOPE}
        ## Declarative resolvers to override the default resolver: `emailLocalPartMatchingUserEntityName`
        ## The authentication provider tries each sign-in resolver until it succeeds, and fails if none succeed. Uncomment the resolvers that you want to use.
        # signIn:
        #   resolvers:
        #     - resolver: preferredUsernameMatchingUserEntityName
        #     - resolver: emailMatchingUserEntityProfileEmail
        #     - resolver: emailLocalPartMatchingUserEntityName
signInPage: oidc # <3>
dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog: true # <4>
----
+
<1> Mark the environment as `production` to hide the Guest login in the {product-short} home page.
<2> To configure the OIDC provider with your secrets.
<3> To enable the OIDC provider as default sign-in provider.
<4> To enable authentication without requiring to provision the user catalog.
```

[id="enabling-authentication-with-rhsso"]
= Enabling authentication with Red Hat Single-Sign On (RHSSO)

To authenticate users with Red Hat SSO (RHSSO), enable the OpenID Connect (OIDC) authentication provider in {product}.

> You might use this authentication provider to authenticate with other third-party services that support the OIDC protocol.

Author: ```suggestion
```

.Prerequisites
* You link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_developer_hub/{product-version}/html/administration_guide_for_red_hat_developer_hub/assembly-add-custom-app-file-openshift_admin-rhdh[added a custom {product-short} application configuration], and have sufficient permissions to modify it.
* You have sufficient permissions in RHSSO to create and manage a realm.

.Procedure
. To allow Developer Hub to authenticate with RHSSO, complete the steps in RHSSO, to link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#realms-apps_[create a realm and a user] and link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#registering-app_[register the {product-short} application]:

.. Use an existing realm, or link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#create-realm_[create a realm], with a distinctive **Name** such as __<my_realm>__.
Save the value for the next step:

> * **RHSSO realm base URL**, such as: __<your_rhsso_URL>__/auth/realms/__<my_realm>__.

Author: ```suggestion
* **RHSSO realm base URL**, such as: __<your_rhsso_URL>__/auth/realms/__<your_realm>__.
```

> .. To register your {product-short} in RHSSO, link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#registering-app_[create a Client ID], with:

Author: ```suggestion
.. To register your {product-short} in RHSSO, in this realm, link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#registering-app_[create a Client ID], with:
```

... **Email verified**: Toggle to `On`.
.. To set a password for this user, navigate to the **Credentials** tab, click **Set password**, enter the **Password**, and toggle **Temporary** to `Off`.

> .. link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#registering-app_[Create a Client ID], with a distinctive **CLient ID** such as __<{product-very-short}>__.

Author: ```suggestion
.. link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#registering-app_[Create a Client ID], with:
... **CLient ID**: A distinctive client ID, such as __<{product-very-short}>__.
```

... Save the **RHSSO URL**, **Realm name**, **Client ID**, and **Client Secret** values for the next step.

> .. To prepare for the verification steps, in this realm, use an existing user, or link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#create-user_[create a user], with:

Author: ```suggestion
.. To prepare for the verification steps, in the same realm, get the credential information for an existing user, or link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#create-user_[create a user], with:
```

> . To allow Developer Hub to authenticate with RHSSO, complete the steps in RHSSO, to link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#realms-apps_[create a realm and a user] and link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#registering-app_[register the {product-short} application]:
> .. Use an existing realm, or link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#create-realm_[create a realm], with a distinctive **Name** such as __<my_realm>__.
> .. Save your **RHSSO realm base URL** for the next step, such as: __<your_rhsso_URL>__/auth/realms/__<my_realm>__.
> .. To register your {product-short} in RHSSO, in this realm, link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#registering-app_[create a Client ID], with:
> ... **Client ID**: A distinctive client ID, such as __<{product-very-short}>__.
> //... **Client authentication**: Toggle to On.
> ... **Valid redirect URIs**: Set to the OIDC handler URL: `https://__<RHDH_URL>__/api/auth/oidc/handler/frame`.
> ... Navigate to the **Credentials** tab and copy the **Client secret**.
> ... Save the values for the next step:
> * **RHSSO realm base URL**
> * **Client ID**
> * **Client Secret**
> 
> .. To prepare for the verification steps, in the same realm, get the credential information for an existing user or link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#create-user_[create a user and save the user credential information].
> ... Save the **Username** and **Password** for the verification steps.

Author: ```suggestion
. To allow Developer Hub to authenticate with RHSSO, complete the steps in RHSSO, to link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#realms-apps_[create a realm and a user] and link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#registering-app_[register the {product-short} application]:

.. Use an existing realm, or link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#create-realm_[create a realm], with a distinctive **Name** such as __<my_realm>__.
Save the value for the next step:
* **RHSSO realm base URL**, such as: __<your_rhsso_URL>__/auth/realms/__<my_realm>__.

.. To register your {product-short} in RHSSO, in this realm, link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#registering-app_[create a Client ID], with:
... **Client ID**: A distinctive client ID, such as __<{product-very-short}>__.
... **Valid redirect URIs**: Set to the OIDC handler URL: `https://__<RHDH_URL>__/api/auth/oidc/handler/frame`.
... Navigate to the **Credentials** tab and copy the **Client secret**.
... Save the values for the next step:
* **Client ID**
* **Client Secret**

.. To prepare for the verification steps, in the same realm, get the credential information for an existing user or link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#create-user_[create a user]. Save the user credential information for the verification steps.
```

> ... To set a password for this user, navigate to the **Credentials** tab, click **Set password**, enter the **Password**, and toggle **Temporary** to `Off`.

Author: Understood

. To add your RHSSO credentials in your Developer Hub secrets, edit your Developer Hub secrets, such as `secrets-rhdh`, and add the following key/value pairs:
+
`AUTH_OIDC_CLIENT_ID`:: Enter the saved **Client ID**.
`AUTH_OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET`:: Enter the saved **Client Secret**.

> `AUTH_OIDC_METADATA_URL`:: Enter your **RHSSO realm base URL**, such as: __<your_rhsso_URL>__/auth/realms/__<my_realm>__.

Author: ```suggestion
`AUTH_OIDC_METADATA_URL`:: Enter the saved **RHSSO realm base URL**.
```

> `AUTH_OIDC_CLIENT_ID`:: Enter the Client ID that you generated in Keycloak, such as `RHDH`.

Reviewer: Should we replace all occurrences of Keycloak with RHSSO?

Author: Absolutely!

. To set up the RHSSO authentication provider in your {product-short} custom configuration, edit your custom Developer Hub config map, such as `app-config-rhdh`, and add following lines to the `app-config-rhdh.yaml` content:
+
.`app-config-rhdh.yaml` fragment
[source,yaml]
----
auth:
  environment: production # <1>
  providers:
    oidc:
      production:
        metadataUrl: ${AUTH_OIDC_METADATA_URL} # <2>
        clientId: ${AUTH_OIDC_CLIENT_ID} # <2>
        clientSecret: ${AUTH_OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET} # <2>

>         prompt: auto

Author: ```suggestion
```

        ## Uncomment for additional configuration options
        # callbackUrl: ${AUTH_OIDC_CALLBACK_URL}
        # tokenEndpointAuthMethod: ${AUTH_OIDC_TOKEN_ENDPOINT_METHOD}
        # tokenSignedResponseAlg: ${AUTH_OIDC_SIGNED_RESPONSE_ALG}
        # scope: ${AUTH_OIDC_SCOPE}
        ## Declarative resolvers to override the default resolver: `emailLocalPartMatchingUserEntityName`
        ## The authentication provider tries each sign-in resolver until it succeeds, and fails if none succeed. Uncomment the resolvers that you want to use.
        # signIn:
        #   resolvers:
        #     - resolver: preferredUsernameMatchingUserEntityName
        #     - resolver: emailMatchingUserEntityProfileEmail
        #     - resolver: emailLocalPartMatchingUserEntityName
signInPage: oidc # <3>
dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog: true # <4>
----
+
<1> Mark the environment as `production` to hide the Guest login in the {product-short} home page.
<2> To configure the OIDC provider with your secrets.
<3> To enable the OIDC provider as default sign-in provider.

> <4> To enable authentication without requiring to provision the {product-short} software catalog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<4> To enable authentication without requiring to provision users in the {product-short} software catalog.
```
This example goes though a non-prod set up.  Is there a follow up issue to show how to ingest users for a prod set up?  This would require refactoring the [instructions](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_developer_hub/1.2/html/configuring_plugins_in_red_hat_developer_hub/rhdh-installing-dynamic-plugins#rhdh-keycloak_plugin-rhdh) to set up keycloak plugin

You might use this authentication provider to authenticate with other third-party services that support the OIDC protocol.

.Prerequisites
* You link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_developer_hub/{product-version}/html/administration_guide_for_red_hat_developer_hub/assembly-add-custom-app-file-openshift_admin-rhdh[added a custom {product-short} application configuration], and have sufficient permissions to modify it.
* You have sufficient permissions in RHSSO to create and manage a realm.

.Procedure
. To allow Developer Hub to authenticate with RHSSO, complete the steps in RHSSO, to link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#realms-apps_[create a realm and a user] and link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#registering-app_[register the {product-short} application]:
.. Use an existing realm, or link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#create-realm_[create a realm], with a distinctive **Name** such as __<{product-very-short}>__.

> .. In this realm, link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#create-user_[create a user], with:
> ... **Username**: Set a distinctive user name, such as __<rhdhuser>__.
> ... **Email verified**: Toggle to `On`.
> .. To set a password for this user, navigate to the **Credentials** tab, click **Set password**, enter the **Password**, and toggle **Temporary** to `Off`.

Author: ```suggestion
.. In this realm, use an existing user, or link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#create-user_[create a user], with:
... **Username**: Set a distinctive user name, such as __<rhdhuser>__.
... **Email verified**: Toggle to `On`.
... To set a password for this user, navigate to the **Credentials** tab, click **Set password**, enter the **Password**, and toggle **Temporary** to `Off`.
... Save the **Username** and **Password** for the verification steps.
```

.. link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#registering-app_[Create a Client ID], with:

> ... **CLient ID**: A distinctive client ID, such as __<{product-very-short}>__.

Author: ```suggestion
... **Client ID**: A distinctive client ID, such as __<{product-very-short}>__.
```

> *** **Client authentication**: Toggle to On.
> *** **Valid redirect URIs**: Set to the OIDC handler URL: `https://__<RHDH_URL>__/api/auth/oidc/handler/frame`.

Author: ```suggestion
//... **Client authentication**: Toggle to On.
... **Valid redirect URIs**: Set to the OIDC handler URL: `https://__<RHDH_URL>__/api/auth/oidc/handler/frame`.
```

> .. Navigate to the **Credentials** tab and copy the **Client secret**.
> .. Save the **Client ID** and the **Client Secret** values for the next step.

Author: ```suggestion
... Navigate to the **Credentials** tab and copy the **Client secret**.
.. Save the **Client ID** and the **Client Secret** values for the next step.
```

> .. Save the **Client ID** and the **Client Secret** values for the next step.

Author: ```suggestion
.. Save the **RHSSO URL**, **Realm name**, **Client ID**, and **Client Secret** values for the next step.
```

... **Email verified**: Toggle to `On`.
... To set a password for this user, navigate to the **Credentials** tab, click **Set password**, enter the **Password**, and toggle **Temporary** to `Off`.
... Save the **Username** and **Password** for the verification steps.
.. link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#registering-app_[Create a Client ID], with:
... **Client ID**: A distinctive client ID, such as __<{product-very-short}>__.
//... **Client authentication**: Toggle to On.
... **Valid redirect URIs**: Set to the OIDC handler URL: `https://__<RHDH_URL>__/api/auth/oidc/handler/frame`.
... Navigate to the **Credentials** tab and copy the **Client secret**.
.. Save the **RHSSO URL**, **Realm name**, **Client ID**, and **Client Secret** values for the next step.

. Add your RHSSO credentials in your Developer Hub secrets.
.. Edit your Developer Hub secrets, such as secrets-rhdh, and add the following key/value pairs:
+
`AUTH_OIDC_CLIENT_ID`:: Enter the Client ID that you generated in Keycloak, such as `RHDH`.
`AUTH_OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET`:: Enter the Client Secret that you generated in Keycloak.

> `AUTH_OIDC_METADATA_URL`:: Enter your RHSSO realm base URL, such as: __<your_rhsso_URL>__/auth/realms/__<{product-very-short}>__

Author: ```suggestion
`AUTH_OIDC_METADATA_URL`:: Enter your RHSSO realm base URL, such as: __<your_rhsso_URL>__/auth/realms/__<{product-very-short}>__.

```

> . Set up the GitHub authentication provider in your {product-short} custom configuration.
> Edit your custom Developer Hub config map, such as `app-config-rhdh`.
> In the `app-config-rhdh.yaml` content, add the `oidc` provider configuration,
> and enable the `oidc` provider for sign-in:

Author: ```suggestion
. To set up the RHSSO authentication provider in your {product-short} custom configuration, edit your custom Developer Hub config map, such as `app-config-rhdh`, and add following lines to the `app-config-rhdh.yaml` content:
```

        # tokenEndpointAuthMethod: ${AUTH_OIDC_TOKEN_ENDPOINT_METHOD}
        # tokenSignedResponseAlg: ${AUTH_OIDC_SIGNED_RESPONSE_ALG}
        # scope: ${AUTH_OIDC_SCOPE}
        ## Declarative resolvers to override the default resolver: `emailLocalPartMatchingUserEntityName`
        ## The authentication provider tries each sign-in resolver until it succeeds, and fails if none succeed. Uncomment the resolvers that you want to use.
        # signIn:
        #   resolvers:
        #     - resolver: preferredUsernameMatchingUserEntityName
        #     - resolver: emailMatchingUserEntityProfileEmail
        #     - resolver: emailLocalPartMatchingUserEntityName
signInPage: oidc # <2>
dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog: true # <3>
----
+
<1> Mark the environment as `production` to hide the Guest login in the {product-short} home page.
<2> To enable the OIDC provider as default sign-in provider.
<3> To enable authentication without requiring to provision the user catalog.

.Verification
. Go to the {product-short} login page.
. Your {product-short} sign-in page displays *Sign in using OIDC* and the Guest user sign-in is disabled.

> . Log in with OIDC.

Author: ```suggestion
. Log in with OIDC by using the saved **Username** and **Password** values.
```

.. In this realm, use an existing user, or link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#create-user_[create a user], with:
... **Username**: Set a distinctive user name, such as __<rhdhuser>__.
... **Email verified**: Toggle to `On`.
... To set a password for this user, navigate to the **Credentials** tab, click **Set password**, enter the **Password**, and toggle **Temporary** to `Off`.
... Save the **Username** and **Password** for the verification steps.
.. link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.6/html-single/getting_started_guide/index#registering-app_[Create a Client ID], with:
... **Client ID**: A distinctive client ID, such as __<{product-very-short}>__.
//... **Client authentication**: Toggle to On.
... **Valid redirect URIs**: Set to the OIDC handler URL: `https://__<RHDH_URL>__/api/auth/oidc/handler/frame`.
... Navigate to the **Credentials** tab and copy the **Client secret**.
.. Save the **RHSSO URL**, **Realm name**, **Client ID**, and **Client Secret** values for the next step.

> . Add your RHSSO credentials in your Developer Hub secrets.
> .. Edit your Developer Hub secrets, such as secrets-rhdh, and add the following key/value pairs:

Author: ```suggestion
. To add your RHSSO credentials in your Developer Hub secrets, edit your Developer Hub secrets, such as `secrets-rhdh`, and add the following key/value pairs:
```
